# Sh4ck: A Credit Card Fraud Detection System

Credit card frauds are a more severe issue for financial institutions in the modern digital age. For instance, in 2018, it [cost approximately &euro;2 billion](#1) in the Single European Payment Area alone. 

With the volume and velocity of the transaction data of financial institutions, an ML-based solution to this problem is mandatory for both the technical feasibility of the task and trustworthy of customers.

In this project, I play a "full-stack" data scientist working for a financial institution to implement a complete fraud detection system by accomplishing the following tasks:

- [ ] Simulate daily transactions using a [transaction data simulator](#1) since, for confidentiality reasons,  it is hard to find publicly available fraud detection data with meaningful features. Then, process the data in real time and in a similar volume from those of a financial instituion with a distributed computing framework, such as Apache Spark.

- [ ] Use historical data to train and build a machine learning model to predict fraudulent transactions.

- [ ] Deploy the model by providing a public API in a cloud environment, such as AWS, and use it to predict frauds in real-time.

- [ ] Translate the model performance into the financial impact generated by the solution.

The above tasks require a sophisticated level of both technical implementations and business knowledge. Therefore,  I will first complete the following simplified version of the project: 

- [x] Simulate transactions over a fixed period using a transaction data simulator.

- [x] Use the simulated data to train and build a machine learning model to predict fraudulent transactions.

- [ ] Deploy the model and use it to assess whether a transaction entered by the user is fraudulent or not.

- [ ] Translate the model performance into the financial impact generated by the solution.

This workflow allows feedback from peers about the direction the product is going on and deciding if it is worth proceeding with the initial plan. Moreover, it simulates an Agile methodology and provides an opportunity to build upon the skills developed in this stage to achieve the desired more elaborate outcomes.
# References
<a id="1">[1]</a> Le Borgne, Yann-Ael et. al. *Reproducible Machine Learning for Credit Card Fraud Detection - Practical Handbook*. Universite Libre de Bruxeles, 2022.(https://github.com/Fraud-Detection-Handbook/fraud-detection-handbook)
